I only found out probably less than a year ago. It's normally referred to in the
National Fruit Collection is called Channel Beauty. I don't know much about it.
I'm pretty sure it's in the National Fruit Collection and you can buy wood
off them. I think it was bred by someone and they have his date about the
1920s I think but you could easily find that out. It's a Cox seedling I believe.
That's really that's all I know. Channel Beauty. That probably becomes let's say
the official name but a lot of varieties have lots of pseudonyms,
different names. Some of them will have a hundred different names. When and where
is it called? Gower? I don't know. I know what it looks like. The tree that I grow,
these ones are quite small. Pale yellow, long stalk. It's striped and splashed
with red splash. This means you're doing that with the Bainbrush.
It's sort of crisp, juicy, obvious and it's got sort of an aromatic taste like Cox does.
Quite a brisk, clean flavour and I think it was bred by whoever it was as a Cox seedling
or it might have been a Cox pit plant. I can't remember but all that stuff is easy to find.
In fact on the label of my label for Channel Beauty there's a picture of Mumbles pear with
I think a Swansea Beauty stood outside. I was hoping for one in the bikini or something
but I can't remember now whether I've got one in the end. Sort of thing you'll get outside of
pier so I went and spent a lot of time on Google Images. The other half of the label is the National
Fruit Collection picture which is a standard thing. Six views of the apple which will be
the apple with stalk cut in half up and down, cut in half on the equator. A view from the top,
a view from the bottom. For a full description, taste and seasonality, flowering times, it's all
on the national records. It's in the National Fruit Collection and will stay there presumably forever.